# e_commerce_data_analysis_SQL

## Project Objective
To perform in depth analysis on the e-commerce dataset in SQL, and further use python for any required visualizations.

## Dataset used
- Dataset: <a href="https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/devarajv88/target-dataset">e-commerce dataset</a>

## Questions
**Basic Queries**<br>
1. List all unique cities where customers are located.
2. Count the number of orders placed in 2017.
3. Find the total sales per category.
4. Calculate the percentage of orders that were paid in installments.
5. Count the number of customers from each state.


**Intermediate Queries**<br>
1. Calculate the number of orders per month in 2018.
2. Find the average number of products per order, grouped by customer state.
3. Calculate the percentage of total revenue contributed by each product category.
4. Identify the correlation between product price and the number of times a product has been purchased(total no. of products here will be from product_category)
5. Calculate the total revenue generated by each seller, and rank them by revenue.


**Advance Queries**<br>
1. Calculate the moving average of order values for each customer over their order history.(say moving average of last 3 orders)
2. Calculate the cumulative sales per month for each year.
3. Calculate the year-over-year growth rate of total sales.
4. Calculate the month_on_month growth rate of total sales.
5. Identify the top 3 customers who spent the most money in each year.


## Process
1. Post downloading the dataset archieve(zip file), it is extracted in a seperate folder.
2. Used jupyter notebook to push the tables to SQL server(MySQL localhost used in this project)
3. Fired all the queries in **SQL database** using appropriate **functions, joins, filters, CTEs, windows function, etc.**
4. Running the same queries in jupyter notebook using _mysql connector library_ and viewing the output as a dataframe. Further creating any relevant plots like **bar charts, line charts, etc.** using _matplotlib_ and _seaborn library_.

## Conclusion
SQL is used in tandem with python to meet the project objective and perform the required analysis on the e-commerce dataset.
